actool(1)							     actool(1)



NAME
       actool - compiles, prints, updates, and verifies asset catalogs.


SYNOPSIS
       actool [options] document

DESCRIPTION
       actool  verifies, updates, and prints the contents of an asset catalog,
       generating its output in standard plist format.	 The  tool  follows  a
       "read", "modify", "write", "print" order of operations.


OPTIONS
   Specifying Output:
       --write path
	      Write the resulting asset catalog to the specified path.


       --output-format format
	      By  default,  actool provides output in the form of an XML prop-
	      erty list. Specifying binary1 will instruct actool to  output  a
	      binary  property list. Similarly, xml1 specifies an XML property
	      list, and human-readable-text specifies human readable text.



   Compiling:
       --compile path
	      Compile the input file and writes the output  to	the  specified
	      path.  The  compile  option instructs actool to convert an asset
	      catalog to files optimized for  runtime.	Additionally,  --warn-
	      ings, --errors, and --output-format are three other options that
	      are commonly combined with --compile.


       --warnings
	      Include document warning	messages  in  actool's	plist  output.
	      Warnings	     will	appear	     under	 the	   key
	      com.apple.actool.document.warnings, with messages  listed  under
	      the subkey message and warning types under the subkey type.


       --errors
	      Include  document  error	messages  in  actool's	plist  output.
	      Errors	   will       appear	   under	the	   key
	      com.apple.actool.document.errors, with messages listed under the
	      subkey message and error types under the subkey type.


       --notices
	      Include document	notice	messages  in  actool's	plist  output.
	      Notices	     will	appear	     under	 the	   key
	      com.apple.actool.document.notices, with  messages  listed  under
	      the subkey message and error types under the subkey type.


       --output-partial-info-plist path
	      Emit a plist to path that contains keys and values to include in
	      an application's info plist.


       --app-icon name
	      Can be combined with --compile to select an app icon to  compile
	      to the output directory. This flag also causes actool to declare
	      the app icon in the patrial info plist  component  specified  by
	      --output-partial-info-plist.


       --launch-image name
	      Can  be combined with --compile to select a launch image to com-
	      pile to the output directory. This flag also  causes  actool  to
	      declare  the  launch  image  in the patrial info plist component
	      specified by --output-partial-info-plist.


       --platform platform-name
	      Specifies the target platform to compile for. This option influ-
	      ences warnings, validation, and which images are included in the
	      built product.


       --minimum-deployment-target version
	      Specifies the minimum deployment target  to  compile  for.  This
	      option  influences  warnings,  validation,  and which images are
	      included in the built product.


       --target-device device-name
	      Specifies the target device to compile for, and  may  be	passed
	      multiple times. This option influences warnings, validation, and
	      which images are included in the built product.



   Listing Content:
       --print-contents
	      Include a listing of the catalog's content in the output.



   Version Information:
       --version
	      Print the version of actool.  The version information is	output
	      under  the key com.apple.actool.version with the subkeys bundle-
	      version and short-bundle-version.


EXAMPLES
       actool MyApp.assetcatalog --compile MyApp.car
	      actool will compile MyApp.assetcatalog and produce MyApp.car.


SEE ALSO
       plist(1)



Apple Inc.			  Dec 15 2011			     actool(1)
