htop(1) 			     Utils			       htop(1)



NAME
       htop - interactive process viewer

SYNTAX
       htop

DESCRIPTION
       This program is a free (GPL) ncurses-based process viewer.

       It is similar to top, but allows to scroll the list vertically and hor-
       izontally to see all processes and their full command lines.

       Tasks related to processes (killing,  renicing)	can  be  done  without
       entering their PIDs.

COMMAND-LINE OPTIONS
       The following flags are supported:


       -d DELAY
	      Delay between updates, in tenths of seconds

       -u USERNAME
	      Show only processes of a given user

       --sort-key COLUMN
	      Sort by this column (use --sort-key help for a column list)


INTERACTIVE COMMANDS
       The following commands are supported:


       Arrows, PgUP, PgDn, Home, End
	    Scroll process list.

       Space
	    "Tag":  mark a process. Commands that can operate on multiple pro-
	    cesses, like "kill", will then apply over the list of tagged  pro-
	    cesses, instead of the currently highlighted one.

       U    "Untag"  all processes (remove all tags added with the Space key).

       s    Trace process system calls: if strace(1)  is  installed,  pressing
	    this  key  will  attach it to the currently selected process, pre-
	    senting a live update of system calls issued by the process.

       l    Display open files for a process: if lsof(1) is installed,	press-
	    ing  this  key will display the list of file descriptors opened by
	    the process.

       F1, h
	    Help screen

       F2, S
	    Setup screen. There you can configure meters displayed on the  top
	    side of the screen, as well as set various display options, choose
	    among color schemes and select the layout of  the  displayed  col-
	    umns.

       F3, /
	    Incremental process search: type in part of a process command line
	    and the selection highlight will be moved to it. While  in	search
	    mode, pressing this key will cycle through matching occurrences.

       F4, I
	    Invert sort order: if sort order is increasing, switch to decreas-
	    ing, and vice-versa.

       F5, t
	    Tree view: organize processes by parenthood, and layout the  rela-
	    tions between them as a tree. Toggling the key will switch between
	    tree and your previously selected sort view. Selecting a sort view
	    will exit tree view.

       F6, >
	    Select  field  for sorting. The sort field is indicated by a high-
	    light in the header.

       F7, ], -
	    Increase selected process priority (subtract from  'nice'  value).
	    This can be done by the superuser only.

       F8, [, +
	    Decrease selected process priority (add to 'nice' value)

       F9, k
	    "Kill" process: sends a signal which is selected in a menu, to one
	    or a group of processes. If processes were tagged, sends the  sig-
	    nal to all tagged processes.  If none is tagged, sends to the cur-
	    rently selected process.

       F10, q
	    Quit

       a (on multiprocessor machines)
	    Set CPU affinity: mark which CPUs a process is allowed to use.

       u    Show only processes owned by a specified user.

       M    Sort by memory usage (top compatibility key).

       P    Sort by processor usage (top compatibility key).

       T    Sort by time (top compatibility key).

       F    "Follow" process: if the sort order causes the currently  selected
	    process  to  move  in  the list, make the selection bar follow it.
	    This is useful for monitoring a process: this way, you can keep  a
	    process  always  visible  on  screen. When a movement key is used,
	    "follow" loses effect.

       K    Hide kernel threads: prevent the threads belonging the  kernel  to
	    be displayed in the process list. (This is a toggle key.)

       H    Hide user threads: on systems that represent them differently than
	    ordinary processes (such as recent NPTL-based systems),  this  can
	    hide  threads  from userspace processes in the process list. (This
	    is a toggle key.)

       Ctrl-L
	    Refresh: redraw screen and recalculate values.

       Numbers
	    PID search: type in process ID and the selection highlight will be
	    moved to it.


AUTHORS
       htop   is   developed   by  Hisham  Muhammad  <loderunner@users.source-
       forge.net>.
       This man page was written  by  Bartosz  Fenski  <fenio@o2.pl>  for  the
       Debian  GNU/Linux  distribution	(but  it  may  be used by others), and
       updated by Hisham Muhammad.



Bartosz Fenski <fenio@o2.pl>	     0.8.2			       htop(1)
