LUA(1)									LUA(1)



NAME
       lua - Lua interpreter

SYNOPSIS
       lua [ options ] [ script [ args ] ]

DESCRIPTION
       lua  is the standalone Lua interpreter.	It loads and executes Lua pro-
       grams, either in textual source form or	in  precompiled  binary  form.
       (Precompiled  binaries  are output by luac, the Lua compiler.)  lua can
       be used as a batch interpreter and also interactively.

       The given options are handled in order and then the Lua program in file
       script  is loaded and executed.	The given args are available to script
       as strings in a global table named arg.	If no options or arguments are
       given,  then  -v  -i  is assumed when the standard input is a terminal;
       otherwise, - is assumed.

       In interactive mode, lua prompts the user, reads lines from  the  stan-
       dard  input,  and  executes  them as they are read.  If a line does not
       contain a complete statement, then a secondary prompt is displayed  and
       lines  are  read until a complete statement is formed or a syntax error
       is found.  If a line starts with '=', then lua evaluates  and  displays
       the values of the expressions in the remainder of the line.

       At  the	very  start, before even handling the command line, lua checks
       the contents of the environment variables LUA_INIT_5_2 or LUA_INIT,  in
       that  order.  If the contents is of the form '@filename', then filename
       is executed.  Otherwise, the string is assumed to be  a	Lua  statement
       and is executed.

OPTIONS
       -e stat
	      execute statement stat.

       -i     enter interactive mode after executing script.

       -l name
	      execute  the equivalent of name=require('name') before executing
	      script.

       -v     show version information.

       -E     ignore environment variables.

       --     stop handling options.

       -      stop handling options and execute the standard input as a  file.

SEE ALSO
       luac(1)
       The  documentation  at  lua.org,  especially section 7 of the reference
       manual.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Error messages should be self explanatory.

AUTHORS
       R. Ierusalimschy, L. H. de Figueiredo, W. Celes



			 $Date: 2011/11/16 17:16:53 $			LUA(1)
