PDFROFF(1)							    PDFROFF(1)



NAME
       pdfroff - create PDF documents using groff

SYNOPSIS
       pdfroff [-abcegilpstzCEGNRSUVXZ] [-d cs] [-f fam] [-F dir]
	       [-I dir] [-L arg] [-m name] [-M dir] [-n num] [-o list]
	       [-P arg] [-r cn] [-T dev] [-w name] [-W name]
	       [--no-toc-relocation] [--stylesheet=name]
	       [--no-pdf-output | --pdf-output=name]
	       [--no-reference-dictionary | --reference-dictionary=name]
	       [--report-progress] file ...

       pdfroff -h | --help

       pdfroff -v | --version [option ...]

       The  command  line is parsed in accordance with normal GNU conventions,
       but with one exception -- when specifying any short form option	(i.e.,
       a  single  character option introduced by a single hyphen), and if that
       option expects an argument, then it  must  be  specified  independently
       (i.e.,  it  may	not be appended to any group of other single character
       short form options).

       Long form option names (i.e., those introduced by a double hyphen)  may
       be abbreviated to their minimum length unambigous initial substring.

DESCRIPTION
       pdfroff is a wrapper program for the GNU text processing system, groff.
       It transparently handles the mechanics of multiple pass groff  process-
       ing,  when  applied to suitably marked up groff source files, such that
       tables of contents and body text are formatted separately, and are sub-
       sequently  combined  in	the  correct order, for final publication as a
       single PDF document.  A further optional  "style sheet"	capability  is
       provided;  this	allows for the definition of content which is required
       to preceed the table of contents, in the published document.

       For each invocation of pdfroff, the ultimate  groff  output  stream  is
       post-processed  by  the	GhostScript interpreter, to produce a finished
       PDF document.

       pdfroff makes no assumptions about, and imposes no restrictions on, the
       use of any groff macro packages which the user may choose to employ, in
       order to achieve a desired document format; however,  it  does  include
       specific built in support for the pdfmark macro package, should the us-
       er choose to employ it.	Specifically, if the pdfhref macro, defined in
       the  pdfmark.tmac package, is used to define public reference marks, or
       dynamic links to such reference marks, then  pdfroff  will  perform  as
       many  preformatting  groff passes as required, up to a maximum limit of
       four, in order to compile a document reference dictionary,  to  resolve
       references, and to expand the dynamically defined content of links.

USAGE
       pdfroff	usage  closely mirrors that of groff itself.  Indeed, with the
       exception of the -h, -v, and -T dev short form options,	and  all  long
       form  options,  which are parsed internally by pdfroff, all options and
       file name arguments specified on the command  line  are	passed	on  to
       groff,  to  control  the formatting of the PDF document.  Consequently,
       pdfroff accepts all options and arguments, as  specified  in  groff(1),
       which  may also be considered as the definitive reference for all stan-
       dard pdfroff options and argument usage.

OPTIONS
       pdfroff accepts all of the short form options (i.e.,  those  introduced
       by  a  single  hyphen), which are available with groff itself.  In most
       cases, these are simply passed transparently to groff;  the  following,
       however, are handled specially by pdfroff.

       -h     Same as --help; see below.

       -i     Process  standard  input, after all other specified input files.
	      This is passed transparently to groff, but, if grouped with oth-
	      er options, it must be the first in the group.  Hiding it within
	      a group will break standard input processing,  in  the  multiple
	      pass groff processing context of pdfroff.

       -T dev Only  -T ps  is supported by pdfroff.  Attempting to specify any
	      other device will cause pdfroff to abort.

       -v     Same as --version; see below.

       See groff(1) for a description of all other short form  options,  which
       are transparently passed through pdfroff to groff.

       All  long  form options (i.e., those introduced by a double hyphen) are
       interpreted locally by pdfroff; they are not passed on to groff, unless
       otherwise stated below.

       --help Causes pdfroff to display a summary of the its usage syntax, and
	      supported options, and then exit.

       --no-pdf-output
	      May be used with	the  --reference-dictionary=name  option  (de-
	      scribed below) to eliminate the overhead of PDF formatting, when
	      running pdfroff to create a reference dictionary, for use  in  a
	      different document.

       --no-reference-dictionary
	      May  be  used  to eliminate the overhead of creating a reference
	      dictionary, when it is known that the target PDF	document  will
	      contain no public references, created by the pdfhref macro.

       --no-toc-relocation
	      May  be used to eliminate the extra groff processing pass, which
	      is required to generate a table of contents, and relocate it  to
	      the  start  of  the  PDF	document, when processing any document
	      which lacks an automatically generated table of contents.

       --pdf-output=name
	      Specifies the name to be used for the resultant PDF document; if
	      unspecified,  the  PDF  output is written to standard output.  A
	      future version of pdfroff may use this  option,  to  encode  the
	      document name in a generated reference dictionary.

       --reference-dictionary=name
	      Specifies  the  name to be used for the generated reference dic-
	      tionary file; if unspecified, the reference dictionary is creat-
	      ed  in a temporary file, which is deleted when pdfroff completes
	      processing of the current document.  This option must be	speci-
	      fied, if it is desired to save the reference dictionary, for use
	      in references placed in other PDF documents.

       --report-progress
	      Causes pdfroff to display an informational message  on  standard
	      error, at the start of each groff processing pass.

       --stylesheet=name
	      Specifies the name of an input file, to be used as a style sheet
	      for formatting of content, which is to be placed before the  ta-
	      ble of contents, in the formatted PDF document.

       --version
	      Causes pdfroff to display a version identification message.  The
	      entire command line is then passed transparently to groff, in  a
	      one  pass  operation  only,  in  order to display the associated
	      groff version information, before exiting.

ENVIRONMENT
       The following environment variables may be set, and exported, to modify
       the behaviour of pdfroff.

       GROFF_TMPDIR
	      Identifies  the  directory in which pdfroff should create tempo-
	      rary files.  If GROFF_TMPDIR is not specified,  then  the  vari-
	      ables  TMPDIR,  TMP and TEMP are considered in turn, as possible
	      temporary file repositories.  If none of	these  are  set,  then
	      temporary files will be created in the current directory.

       GROFF_GHOSTSCRIPT_INTERPRETER
	      Specifies the program to be invoked, when pdfroff converts groff
	      PostScript output to PDF.  If  GROFF_GHOSTSCRIPT_INTERPRETER  is
	      not  specified, then pdfroff will search the process PATH, look-
	      ing for a program with any of  the  well	known  names  for  the
	      GhostScript  interpreter;  if  no GhostScript interpreter can be
	      found, pdfroff will abort.

       GROFF_AWK_INTERPRETER
	      Specifies the program to be invoked, when pdfroff is  extracting
	      reference  dictionary  entries from a groff intermediate message
	      stream.  If GROFF_AWK_INTERPRETER is not specified, then pdfroff
	      will  search  the process PATH, looking for any of the preferred
	      programs, `gawk', `mawk', `nawk' and `awk', in  this  order;  if
	      none  of	these are found, pdfroff will issue a warning message,
	      and continue processing; however, in  this  case,  no  reference
	      dictionary will be created.

       OSTYPE Typically  defined automatically by the operating system, OSTYPE
	      is used on Microsoft Win32/MS-DOS platforms only, to  infer  the
	      default PATH_SEPARATOR character, which is used when parsing the
	      process PATH to search for external helper programs.

       PATH_SEPARATOR
	      If set, PATH_SEPARATOR overrides the default  separator  charac-
	      ter,  (':'  on  POSIX/UNIX  systems, inferred from OSTYPE on Mi-
	      crosoft Win32/MS-DOS), which is used when  parsing  the  process
	      PATH to search for external helper programs.

       SHOW_PROGRESS
	      If  this	is  set to a non-empty value, then pdfroff will always
	      behave as if the --report-progress option is specified,  on  the
	      command line.

FILES
       Input  and  output files for pdfroff may be named according to any con-
       vention of the user's choice.  Typically, input files may be named  ac-
       cording	to the choice of the principal formatting macro package, e.g.,
       file.ms might be an input file  for  formatting	using  the  ms	macros
       (s.tmac); normally, the final output file should be named file.pdf.

       Temporary files, created by pdfroff, are placed in the directory speci-
       fied by environment variables (see section ENVIRONMENT), and named  ac-
       cording to the convention pdf$$.*, where $$ is the standard shell vari-
       able representing the process ID of the pdfroff process itself,	and  *
       represents  any of a number of extensions used by pdfroff for temporary
       and intermediate files.

SEE ALSO
       See groff(1) for the definitive reference to document  formatting  with
       groff.	Since  pdfroff	provides a superset of all groff capabilities,
       groff(1) may also be considered to be the definitive reference  to  all
       standard capabilities of pdfroff, with this document providing the ref-
       erence to pdfroff's extended features.

       While pdfroff imposes neither any restriction on, nor  any  requirement
       for,  the use of any specific groff macro package, a number of supplied
       macro packages, and in particular those	associated  with  the  package
       pdfmark.tmac,  are  best  suited  for use with pdfroff as the preferred
       formatter.  Detailed documentation on the use of these packages may  be
       found,  in PDF format, in the reference guide "Portable Document Format
       Publishing with GNU Troff", included in the installed documentation set
       as /usr/share/doc/groff/1.19.2/pdf/pdfmark.pdf.

AUTHOR
       Copyright (C) 2005, Free Software Foundation, Inc.

       This man page is distributed under the terms of the GNU Free Documenta-
       tion License (FDL), version 1.1 or later, and is part of the GNU  troff
       software  package.   It	was  originally  written  by  Keith  Marshall,
       <keith.d.marshall@ntlworld.com>, who also wrote the  implementation  of
       the pdfroff program, to which it relates.

       You  should  have  received  a copy of the FDL as part of the GNU troff
       distribution; it is also available on-line, at the GNU "copyleft" site,
       <http://www.gnu.org/copyleft/fdl.html>.



Groff Version 1.19.2		  17 May 2005			    PDFROFF(1)
