TIFF2PDF(1)							   TIFF2PDF(1)



NAME
       tiff2pdf - convert a TIFF image to a PDF document

SYNOPSIS
       tiff2pdf [ options ] input.tiff

DESCRIPTION
       tiff2pdf  opens a TIFF image and writes a PDF document to standard out-
       put.

       The program converts one TIFF file to one PDF file, including  multiple
       page  TIFF  files,  tiled  TIFF	files, black and white. grayscale, and
       color TIFF files that contain data of TIFF photometric  interpretations
       of  bilevel,  grayscale, RGB, YCbCr, CMYK separation, and ICC L*a*b* as
       supported by libtiff and PDF.

       If you have multiple TIFF files to convert into one PDF file  then  use
       tiffcp  or  other program to concatenate the files into a multiple page
       TIFF file.  If the input TIFF file is of huge dimensions (greater  than
       10000  pixels  height or width) convert the input image to a tiled TIFF
       if it is not already.

       The standard output is standard output.	Set the output file name  with
       the -o output.pdf option.

       All  black  and white files are compressed into a single strip CCITT G4
       Fax compressed PDF, unless tiled, where tiled black  and  white	images
       are  compressed	into  tiled CCITT G4 Fax compressed PDF, libtiff CCITT
       support is assumed.

       Color and grayscale data can be compressed using either	JPEG  compres-
       sion, ITU-T T.81, or Zip/Deflate LZ77 compression.  Set the compression
       type using the -j or -z options.   JPEG	compression  support  requires
       that  libtiff be configured with JPEG support, and Zip/Deflate compres-
       sion support requires that libtiff be configured with Zip  support,  in
       tiffconf.h.  Use only one or the other of -j and -z.

       If  the input TIFF contains single strip CCITT G4 Fax compressed infor-
       mation, then that is written  to  the  PDF  file  without  transcoding,
       unless the options of no compression and no passthrough are set, -d and
       -n.

       If the input TIFF contains JPEG or single strip Zip/Deflate  compressed
       information,  and  they are configured, then that is written to the PDF
       file without transcoding, unless the options of no compression  and  no
       passthrough are set.

       The default page size upon which the TIFF image is placed is determined
       by the resolution and extent of the image data.	Default values for the
       TIFF image resolution can be set using the -x and -y options.  The page
       size can be set using the -p option for paper size, or -w  and  -l  for
       paper width and length, then each page of the TIFF image is centered on
       its page.  The distance unit for default resolution and page width  and
       length can be set by the -u option, the default unit is inch.

       Various	items  of  the output document information can be set with the
       -e, -c, -a, -t, -s, and -k options.  Setting the argument of the option
       to  "" for these tags causes the relevant document information field to
       be not written.	Some of the document information values otherwise  get
       their information from the input TIFF image, the software, author, doc-
       ument name, and image description.

       The Portable Document Format  (PDF)  specification  is  copyrighted  by
       Adobe Systems, Incorporated.

OPTIONS
       -o output-file
	      Set the output to go to file.  output-file

       -j     Compress with JPEG (requires libjpeg configured with libtiff).

       -z     Compress	 with	Zip/Deflate  (requires	zlib  configured  with
	      libtiff).

       -q quality
	      Set the compression quality, 1-100 for JPEG.

       -n     Do not allow data to be converted without uncompressing, no com-
	      pressed data passthrough.

       -b     Set PDF ``Interpolate'' user preference.

       -d     Do not compress (decompress).

       -i     Invert colors.

       -p paper-size
	      Set paper size, e.g., letter, legal, A4.

       -F     Cause the tiff to fill the PDF page.

       -u [i|m]
	      Set distance unit, i for inch, m for centimeter.

       -w width
	      Set width in units.

       -l length
	      Set length in units.

       -x xres
	      Set x/width resolution default.

       -y yres
	      Set y/length resolution default.

       -r [d|o]
	      Set  d  for  resolution default for images without resolution, o
	      for resolution override for all images.

       -f     Set PDF ``Fit Window'' user preference.

       -e YYYYMMDDHHMMSS
	      Set  document  information  date,  overrides  image  or  current
	      date/time default, YYYYMMDDHHMMSS.

       -c creator
	      Set  document  information  creator,  overrides  image  software
	      default.

       -a author
	      Set document information author, overrides image artist default.

       -t title
	      Set  document  information  title, overrides image document name
	      default.

       -s subject
	      Set document information subject, overrides image image descrip-
	      tion default.

       -k keywords
	      Set document information keywords.

       -h     List usage reminder to stderr and exit.

EXAMPLES
       The   following	 example  would  generate  the	file  output.pdf  from
       input.tiff.
	      tiff2pdf -o output.pdf input.tiff

       The  following  example	would  generate PDF output from input.tiff and
       write it to standard output.
	      tiff2pdf input.tiff

       The  following  example	would  generate  the  file   output.pdf   from
       input.tiff, putting the image pages on a letter sized page, compressing
       the output with JPEG, with JPEG quality 75, setting the title to ``Doc-
       ument'', and setting the ``Fit Window'' option.
	      tiff2pdf -p letter -j -q 75 -t "Document" -f -o output.pdf input.tiff

BUGS
       Please report bugs via the web interface at

	      http://bugzilla.remotesensing.org/enter_bug.cgi?product=libtiff

SEE ALSO
       libtiff(3), tiffcp(1), tiff2ps(1)

       Libtiff library home page: http://www.remotesensing.org/libtiff/



libtiff 			April 20, 2006			   TIFF2PDF(1)
