TIFFSV(1)							     TIFFSV(1)



NAME
       tiffsv  -  save	an  image from the framebuffer in a TIFF file (Silicon
       Graphics version)

SYNOPSIS
       tiffsv [ options ] output.tif [ x1 x2 y1 y2 ]

DESCRIPTION
       tiffsv saves all or part of the framebuffer in a  file  using  the  Tag
       Image  File  Format, Revision 6.0.  By default, the image is saved with
       data samples packed (PlanarConfiguration=1), compressed with  the  Lem-
       pel-Ziv	& Welch algorithm (Compression=5), and with each strip no more
       than 8 kilobytes.  These characteristics can be overridden, or  explic-
       itly specified with the options described below.

OPTIONS
       -b     Save  the  image as a greyscale image as if it were processed by
	      tiff2bw(1).  This option is included for compatibility with  the
	      standard scrsave(6D) program.

       -c     Specify  the  compression  to use for data written to the output
	      file: none for no compression, packbits  for  PackBits  compres-
	      sion,  jpeg  for baseline JPEG compression, zip for Deflate com-
	      pression, and lzw for Lempel-Ziv & Welch compression  (default).

	      LZW  compression	can  be  specified  together  with a predictor
	      value.  A predictor value of 2 causes each scanline of the  out-
	      put  image  to  undergo  horizontal  differencing  before  it is
	      encoded; a value of 1 forces each scanline to be encoded without
	      differencing.  LZW-specific options are specified by appending a
	      ``:''-separated list to the ``lzw'' option; e.g.	-c  lzw:2  for
	      LZW compression with horizontal differencing.

       -p     Specify  the  planar configuration to use in writing image data.
	      By default, tiffsv will create a new file with the data  samples
	      packed contiguously.  Specifying -p contig will force data to be
	      written with multi-sample data packed together, while  -p  sepa-
	      rate will force samples to be written in separate planes.

       -r     Specify  the  number  of	rows (scanlines) in each strip of data
	      written to the output file.  By default, tiffsv attempts to  set
	      the rows/strip that no more than 8 kilobytes of data appear in a
	      strip.

NOTE
       Except for the use of TIFF, this program is equivalent to the  standard
       scrsave	program.  This means, for example, that you can use it in con-
       junction with the standard icut	program  simply  by  creating  a  link
       called  scrsave,  or  by  creating  a  shell script called scrsave that
       invokes tiffgt with the appropriate options.

BUGS
       If data are saved compressed and in separate planes, then the  rows  in
       each  strip  is	silently  set  to  one	to  avoid  limitations	in the
       libtiff(3TIFF) library.

SEE ALSO
       scrsave(6D) pal2rgb(1), tiffdump(1), tiffgt(1), tiffinfo(1), tiffcp(1),
       tiffmedian(1), libtiff(3TIFF)

       Libtiff library home page: http://www.remotesensing.org/libtiff/



libtiff 		      September 20, 2005		     TIFFSV(1)
