TIFFGT(1)							     TIFFGT(1)



NAME
       tiffgt  - display an image stored in a TIFF file (Silicon Graphics ver-
       sion)

SYNOPSIS
       tiffgt [ options ] input.tif ...

DESCRIPTION
       tiffgt displays one or more images stored using the Tag Image File For-
       mat,  Revision  6.0.   Each image is placed in a fixed size window that
       the user must position on  the  display	(unless  configured  otherwise
       through X defaults).  If the display has fewer than 24 bitplanes, or if
       the image does not warrant full color, then RGB color values are mapped
       to  the	closest  values that exist in the colormap (this is done using
       the rgbi routine found in the graphics utility library -lgutil.)

       tiffgt correctly handles files with any of the  following  characteris-
       tics:
	    BitsPerSample	       1, 2, 4, 8, 16
	    SamplesPerPixel	       1, 3, 4 (the 4th sample is ignored)
	    PhotometricInterpretation  0 (min-is-white), 1 (min-is-black), 2 (RGB), 3 (palette), 6 (YCbCr)
	    PlanarConfiguration        1 (contiguous), 2 (separate)
	    Orientation 	       1 (top-left), 4 (bottom-left)
       Data may be organized as strips or tiles and may be compressed with any
       of the compression algorithms supported by the libtiff(3) library.

       For palette images (PhotometricInterpretation=3), tiffgt  inspects  the
       colormap  values and assumes either 16-bit or 8-bit values according to
       the maximum value.  That is, if no colormap entry greater than  255  is
       found,  tiffgt assumes the colormap has only 8-bit values; otherwise it
       assumes 16-bit values.  This inspection is done to  handle  old	images
       written by previous (incorrect) versions of libtiff.

       tiffgt  can be used to display multiple images one-at-a-time.  The left
       mouse button switches the display to the first image in the  next  file
       in  the	list  of files specified on the command line.  The right mouse
       button switches to the first image in the previous file	in  the  list.
       The middle mouse button causes the first image in the first file speci-
       fied on the command line to be displayed.  In  addition	the  following
       keyboard commands are recognized:

       b      Use  a PhotometricInterpretation of MinIsBlack in displaying the
	      current image.

       l      Use a FillOrder of lsb-to-msb in decoding the current image.

       m      Use a FillOrder of msb-to-lsb in decoding the current image.

       c      Use a colormap visual to display the current image.

       r      Use a true color (24-bit RGB)  visual  to  display  the  current
	      image.

       w      Use  a PhotometricInterpretation of MinIsWhite in displaying the
	      current image.

       W      Toggle (enable/disable) display of  warning  messages  from  the
	      TIFF library when decoding images.

       E      Toggle  (enable/disable) display of error messages from the TIFF
	      library when decoding images.

       z      Reset all parameters to their default settings (FillOrder,  Pho-
	      tometricInterpretation, handling of warnings and errors).

       PageUp Display the previous image in the current file or the last image
	      in the previous file.

       PageDown
	      Display the next image in the current file or the first image in
	      the next file.

       Home   Display the first image in the current file.

       End    Display the last image in the current file (unimplemented).

OPTIONS
       -c     Force image display in a colormap window.

       -d     Specify an image to display by directory number.	By default the
	      first image in the file is displayed.  Directories are  numbered
	      starting at zero.

       -e     Enable  reporting  of  error messages from the TIFF library.  By
	      default tiffgt silently ignores images that cannot be read.

       -f     Force tiffgt to run as a foreground process.  By default	tiffgt
	      will  place  itself  in  the  background	once it has opened the
	      requested image file.

       -l     Force the presumed bit ordering to be LSB to MSB.

       -m     Force the presumed bit ordering to be MSB to LSB.

       -o     Specify an image to display by directory offset.	By default the
	      first  image  in the file is displayed.  Directories offsets may
	      be specified using C-style syntax; i.e.  a  leading  ``0x''  for
	      hexadecimal and a leading ``0'' for octal.

       -p     Override	the  value  of	the PhotometricInterpretation tag; the
	      parameter may be one of: miniswhite, minisblack,	rgb,  palette,
	      mask, separated, ycbcr, and cielab.

       -r     Force image display in a full color window.

       -s     Stop  on	the  first  read  error.  By default all errors in the
	      input data are ignored and tiffgt does it's best to  display  as
	      much of an image as possible.

       -w     Enable  reporting of warning messages from the TIFF library.  By
	      default tiffgt ignores warning messages generated  when  reading
	      an image.

       -v     Place  information in the title bar describing what type of win-
	      dow (full color or colormap) is being  used,  the  name  of  the
	      input  file, and the directory index of the image (if non-zero).
	      By default, the window type is not shown in the title bar.

BUGS
       Images wider and taller than the  display  are  silently  truncated  to
       avoid crashing old versions of the window manager.

SEE ALSO
       tiffdump(1), tiffinfo(1), tiffcp(1), libtiff(3TIFF)

       Libtiff library home page: http://www.remotesensing.org/libtiff/



libtiff 		      September 20, 2005		     TIFFGT(1)
