WINESERVER(1)			Windows on Unix 		 WINESERVER(1)



NAME
       wineserver - the Wine server

SYNOPSIS
       wineserver [options]

DESCRIPTION
       wineserver  is  a daemon process that provides to Wine roughly the same
       services that the Windows kernel provides on Windows.

       wineserver is normally launched automatically when starting wine(1), so
       you  shouldn't have to worry about it. In some cases however, it can be
       useful to  start  wineserver  explicitly  with  different  options,  as
       explained below.

OPTIONS
       -d[n], --debug[=n]
	      Set  the	debug level to n.  0 means no debugging information, 1
	      is the normal level, and 2 is for extra verbose debugging. If  n
	      is  not  specified,  the	default is 1. The debug output will be
	      sent to stderr. wine(1) will automatically enable  normal  level
	      debugging  when starting wineserver if the +server option is set
	      in the WINEDEBUG variable.

       -f, --foreground
	      Make the server remain in the foreground for  easier  debugging,
	      for instance when running it under a debugger.

       -h, --help
	      Display a help message.

       -k[n], --kill[=n]
	      Kill  the  currently  running  wineserver, optionally by sending
	      signal n. If no signal is specified, sends a  SIGINT  first  and
	      then  a  SIGKILL.   The instance of wineserver that is killed is
	      selected based on the WINEPREFIX environment variable.

       -p[n], --persistent[=n]
	      Specify the wineserver persistence delay,  i.e.  the  amount  of
	      time that the server will keep running when all client processes
	      have terminated. This avoids  the  cost  of  shutting  down  and
	      starting	again  when programs are launched in quick succession.
	      The timeout n is in seconds, the default value is 3 seconds.  If
	      n is not specified, the server stays around forever.

       -v, --version
	      Display version information and exit.

       -w, --wait
	      Wait until the currently running wineserver terminates.

ENVIRONMENT
       WINEPREFIX
	      If set, the content of this variable is taken as the name of the
	      directory where wineserver  stores  its  data  (the  default  is
	      $HOME/.wine).  All  wine	processes  using  the  same wineserver
	      (i.e.: same user) share certain  things  like  registry,	shared
	      memory  and  kernel objects.  By setting WINEPREFIX to different
	      values for different Wine processes, it is  possible  to	run  a
	      number of truly independent Wine sessions.

       WINESERVER
	      Specifies  the  path and name of the wineserver binary that will
	      be launched automatically by wine. If not set, wine will try  to
	      load  /usr/local/Cellar/wine/1.6.2/bin/wineserver,  and  if this
	      doesn't exist it will then look for a file named	wineserver  in
	      the path and in a few other likely locations.

FILES
       ~/.wine
	      Directory containing user specific data managed by wine.

       /tmp/.wine-uid
	      Directory  containing  the server Unix socket and the lock file.
	      These files are created in a  subdirectory  generated  from  the
	      WINEPREFIX directory device and inode numbers.

AUTHORS
       The  original  author  of  wineserver is Alexandre Julliard. Many other
       people have contributed new features and  bug  fixes.  For  a  complete
       list, see the git commit logs.

BUGS
       Bugs can be reported on the Wine bug tracker

AVAILABILITY
       wineserver is part of the Wine distribution, which is available through
       WineHQ, the Wine development headquarters

SEE ALSO
       wine(1),
       Wine documentation and support



Wine 1.6.2			 October 2005			 WINESERVER(1)
