WMC(1)			    Wine Developers Manual			WMC(1)



NAME
       wmc - Wine Message Compiler

SYNOPSIS
       wmc [options] [inputfile]

DESCRIPTION
       wmc  compiles messages from inputfile into FormatMessage[AW] compatible
       format encapsulated in a resourcescript format.	wmc outputs  the  data
       either  in  a  standard	.bin  formatted  binary file, or can generated
       inline resource data.

       wmc takes only one inputfile as argument (see BUGS). The inputfile nor-
       mally  has  extension .mc. The messages are read from standard input if
       no inputfile is given. If the outputfile is not specified with -o, then
       wmc will write the output to inputfile.{rc,h}.  The outputfile is named
       wmc.tab.{rc,h} if no inputfile was given.

OPTIONS
       -B x   Set output byte-order x={n[ative], l[ittle], b[ig]}. Default  is
	      n[ative].

       -c     Set 'custom-bit' in message-code values.

       -d     NON-FUNCTIONAL; Use decimal values in output

       -D     Set  debug  flag.  This  results	is a parser trace and a lot of
	      extra messages.

       -h, --help
	      Print an informative usage message and exits.

       -H file
	      Write headerfile to file. Default is inputfile.h.

       -i     Inline messagetable(s). This option skips the generation of  all
	      .bin  files and writes all output into the .rc file. This encod-
	      ing is parsable with wrc(1).

       -o, --output=file
	      Output to file. Default is inputfile.rc.

       -O, --output-format=format
	      Set the output format. Supported formats are rc  (the  default),
	      res, and pot.

       -P, --po-dir=directory
	      Enable the generation of resource translations based on po files
	      loaded from the specified directory. That directory must	follow
	      the  gettext  convention,  in particular in must contain one .po
	      file for each language, and a LINGUAS file listing the available
	      languages.

       -u     Assume that the inputfile is in unicode.

       -U     Write resource output in unicode formatted messagetable(s).

       -v     Show all supported codepages and languages.

       -V, --version
	      Print version end exit.

       -W, --pedantic
	      Enable pedantic warnings.

EXTENSIONS
       The  original  syntax  is  extended to support codepages more smoothly.
       Normally, codepages are based on the DOS  codepage  from  the  language
       setting. The original syntax only allows the destination codepage to be
       set. However, this is not enough for non-DOS systems which do  not  use
       unicode source-files.

       A  new  keyword	Codepages  is  introduced to set both input and output
       codepages to anything one wants for each language. The syntax is  simi-
       lar to the other constructs:

       Codepages '=' '(' language '=' cpin ':' cpout ... ')'

       The language is the numerical language-ID or the alias set with Langua-
       geNames. The input codepage cpin and  output  codepage  cpout  are  the
       numerical codepage IDs. There can be multiple mappings within the defi-
       nition and the definition may occur more than once.

AUTHORS
       wmc was written by Bertho A. Stultiens.

BUGS
       The message compiler should be able to have multiple  input  files  and
       combine	them  into one output file. This would enable the splitting of
       languages into separate files.

       Unicode detection of the input is suboptimal,  to  say  the  least.  It
       should recognize byte order marks (BOM) and decide what to do.

       Decimal	output	is completely lacking. Don't know whether it should be
       implemented because it is a, well, non-informative format change. It is
       recognized on the commandline for some form of compatibility.

       Bugs can be reported on the Wine bug tracker

AVAILABILITY
       wmc  is	part  of  the  Wine  distribution,  which is available through
       WineHQ, the Wine development headquarters

SEE ALSO
       wine(1), wrc(1),
       Wine documentation and support



Wine 1.6.2			 October 2005				WMC(1)
