XCRUN(1)		  BSD General Commands Manual		      XCRUN(1)



NAME
       xcrun - Run or locate development tools and properties.

SYNOPSIS
       xcrun [--sdk <SDK name>] --find <tool name>

       xcrun [--sdk <SDK name>] <tool name> ... tool arguments ...

       <tool name> ... tool arguments ...

DESCRIPTION
       xcrun  provides	a  means  to locate or invoke developer tools from the
       command-line, without requiring users to modify Makefiles or  otherwise
       take inconvenient measures to support multiple Xcode tool chains.

       The tool xcode-select(1) is used to set a system default for the active
       developer directory, and may be overridden by the  DEVELOPER_DIR  envi-
       ronment variable (see ENVIRONMENT).

       The  SDK which will be searched defaults to the boot system OS SDK, and
       can be specified by the	SDKROOT  environment  variable	or  the  --sdk
       option  (which  takes  precedences  over  SDKROOT). When used to invoke
       another tool (as opposed to simply finding it), xcrun will provide  the
       absolute  path to the selected SDK in the SDKROOT environment variable.
       See ENVIRONMENT for more information.

   Usage
       xcrun supports several different usages, to both look up the  paths  to
       tools as well as execute them.

       When  used  with  the  --find  argument, as in xcrun [--sdk <SDK name>]
       --find <tool name>, the absolute path to the tool (in the provided SDK,
       if given) will be printed.

       When  used  without --find, the name of a tool is required and the tool
       will be executed with the provided arguments.

       When used as the target of a symbolic link, it derives the tool name to
       use from the name it was invoked under, and then executes that tool.

OPTIONS
       -v, --verbose
	      Add verbose information on how the tool lookup is performed.

       -n, --no-cache
	      Don't  consult  the  cache  when	looking  up values. In effect,
	      causes the cache entry to be refreshed.

       -k, --kill-cache
	      Removes the cache. Causes all values to be re-cached.

       --sdk  Specifies which SDK to search for tools. If no --sdk argument is
	      provided, then the SDK used will be taken from the SDKROOT envi-
	      ronment variable, if present.

	      Use xcodebuild -showsdks to list the available SDK names.

       --toolchain
	      Specifies which toolchain to use to perform the  lookup.	If  no
	      option:--toolchain  argument  is provided, then the toolchain to
	      use will be taken from the TOOLCHAINS environment  variable,  if
	      present.

       -l, --log
	      Print the full command line that is invoked.

       -f, --find
	      Enable  "find"  mode, in which the resolved tool path is printed
	      instead of the tool being executed.

       -r, --run
	      Enable "run" mode, in which the resolved tool path  is  executed
	      with  any  provided  additional  arguments.  This is the default
	      mode.

       --show-sdk-path
	      Print the path to the selected SDK.

       --show-sdk-version
	      Print the version number of the selected SDK.

       --show-sdk-platform-path
	      Print the path to the platform for the selected SDK.

       --show-sdk-platform-version
	      Print the version number of the platform for the selected SDK.

ENVIRONMENT
       DEVELOPER_DIR
	  Overrides the active developer directory. When DEVELOPER_DIR is set,
	  its  value  will be used instead of the system-wide active developer
	  directory.

       SDKROOT
	  Specifies the default SDK to be used when  looking  up  tools  (some
	  tools may have SDK specific versions).

	  This	environment  variable  is also set by xcrun to be the absolute
	  path to the user provided SDK  (either  via  SDKROOT	or  the  --sdk
	  option),  when  it  is used to invoke a normal developer tool (build
	  tools like xcodebuild or make are exempt from this behavior).

	  For example, if xcrun is used to invoke clang via:
	      xcrun --sdk macosx clang test.c

	  then xcrun will provide the full path to the macosx SDK in the envi-
	  ronment  variable  SDKROOT. That in turn will be used by clang(1) to
	  automatically select that SDK when compiling the test.c file.

       TOOLCHAINS
	  Specifies the default toolchain to be used  when  looking  up  tools
	  (for tools which are toolchain specific).

       xcrun_log
	  Same as specifying --log.

       xcrun_nocache
	  Same as specifying --no-cache.

       xcrun_verbose
	  Same as specifying --verbose.

EXAMPLES
       xcrun --find clang
	  Finds the path to the clang binary in the default SDK.

       xcrun --sdk iphoneos --find texturetool
	  Finds the path to the texturetool binary in the iOS SDK.

       xcrun --sdk macosx --show-sdk-path
	  Prints the path to the current Mac OS X SDK.

       xcrun git status
	  Locates  the git command and then executes it with a single argument
	  ("status").

DIAGNOSTICS
       When xcrun is invoked with the name xcrun, the options --log and --ver-
       bose  are  useful  debugging aids. The option --no-cache can be used to
       bypass cache lookup, but often at a significant cost in performance.

       When xcrun has taken the place of another tool, the arguments are those
       of  the	tool replaced, and the various xcrun options can't be used. In
       this case, use the specific environment variables instead.

SEE ALSO
       xcodebuild(1), xcode-select(1)



Mac OS X		      September 23, 2013		      XCRUN(1)
